1. Tell me about your favorite project that you’ve managed and what you enjoyed about it
2. What communication style do you use with a team that you’re managing?
3. How do you set project goals? How do you monitor the progress of those goals?
4. How do you deal with team conflict?
5. How do you ensure that your project is on schedule to meet the deadline?
6. Tell me about a recent challenge you encountered and how you overcame it
7. What three skills do you think are most important to be an effective project manager?



Question 1:
The project manager is currently estimating how much programmers will need to complete the financial software upgrade project. 
What document can the project manager use to determine who is available to work on the project?   

resource calendar?

While working on a project, the sponsor makes it clear that he does not want any of the team members to be overworked. 
This means that no team member is allowed to work overtime.
The sponsor is okay with the project being delayed due to this. 
What technique can the project manager best implement to ensure that no team member is overworked? 

(resource distribution)

*RESOURCE LEVELING - is a technique used when resources are limited or over-allocated. 
Resource leveling ensures that no resource is assigned to more than one activity at a time, ensuring that no resource is overworked.
RESOURCE SMOOTHING may accomplish the same task, but it only works if there is slack available on the activities. 
FREE FLOAT is the amount of time you can delay an activity without delaying the next activity. 
LAG is the amount of time you need to delay an activity before the next activity starts.
--


While working on a network upgrade project, a team member installed the network connection and is now configuring the router 
in order to work with the network connection. 
The network connection must be done before the router can be configured. This is an example of what kind of dependency?  

(dependencies)

*MANDATORY dependency is when activities must be done in a certain order. For example, you must complete A then complete B. 
INTERNAL dependencies are things that are under the control of the project team, 
and EXTERNAL dependencies are things that are outside the control of the project team, such as getting a permit. 
DISCRETIONARY dependency is when two activities can be done in any order and they’re not dependent upon each other.

===

The project team is having a very difficult time deciding what method they should use when programming the new functions in the application. 
They can choose between four different methods, and the team is evenly split regarding which method to choose. The project manager has decided 
that he will choose the method for them and will take the responsibility in case it is not the best way to program functions. 
What best describes this technique?   

*In AUTOCRATIC decision making, an individual makes the decision for the team and takes responsibility for the decision. 
VOTING is when the team votes on a potential decision, 
and MULTI-criteria decision is when they use a different criteria are used to evaluate a decision. 
Leadership refers to skills for managing the team.


===

The project manager is currently reviewing all of the meetings that took place over the past few weeks to ensure that it was done 
according to the communication management plan. 
What process is the project manager currently conducting?   

===

The project manager is currently reviewing all of the meetings that took place over the past few weeks to ensure that it was done according to 
the communication management plan. What process is the project manager currently conducting?  

*MONITOR Communications is where the project manager analyzes the project communications with the project management plan to ensure the communications 
are done according to the plan. 
PLAN communication management is done to create the communication management plan. 
MANAGE Communications is where a project manager actually communicates with the stakeholders according to the plan. 
Conduct Communications is not an actual process.

===
While working on a tablet redesign project for large technology company, the project manager received a change request from a key stakeholder. 
The change request would change the position of the power button from the top to the side of the tablet. After an assessment of the change, 
the change control board declined the change due to concerns about redesigning the motherboard. What should the project manager do next?   

Explanation
Once a change is approved or denied, the project manager should update the change log to list the status of the change. 
If a change is approved, the project management should be updated.

===
The project team has just started to code the redesigned accounting application when a key stakeholder asks for the application
in order to include a very specific report to the company’s expenses. The stakeholder has submitted a change request to the project manager. 
What would be the most important input to consider for this change request?   

Explanation
Work performance reports is an input to the process of performing integrated change control, 
as it will show the overall status of the project. The other choices are not inputs to this process.
===

While working on an agile project, a customer has requested for the team to deploy the software as soon as the iteration is done. 
The customer has already checked the completed part of the software and has accepted it. The team has refused to deploy the software. What work best explains the team’s refusal?   


Explanation
Iterations are part of a product that is inspected by the customers. An iteration may not be something that can be released to users since 
it only represents a few weeks’ worth of work. A release usually includes multiple iterations that are releasable to the customers. 
In this question the customer has already accepted the iteration, which means there are no errors in it.

===
While conducting procurement on a project, the project manager has received many different bids with a wide variance of estimated cost for the work. 
What can the project manager use to best determine which vendor has given a realistic price?     


Explanation
An independent estimate is usually done by an outside entity to help give the project manager a more independent understanding 
of what certain project work will cost. Inspections and audits are done after the seller is selected to ensure the work stays on contract. 
Screening and weighing systems are done to help select sellers.
===


